## Introduction

Welcome to Week 12 of the COMP 123: Programming 2 course!

One of the most important topics related Object Oriented Programming, is Graphical User Interfaces (GUI) which is the main focus of this week.

Let's take a look at the learning outcomes for this week:

### Learning Outcomes

Upon the completion of this work the learner will have a good understanding of GUI programming concepts, such as windows, forms and events.

The student shall be capable of implementing basic event handling for various Windows controls.

The student will be able to use 
- TextBox, 
- Label, 
- Button, 
- ComboBox, 
- CheckBox, 
- RadioButton, 
- GroupBox, 
- NumericUpDown, 
- Timer 
- and DataGridView controls 
to build GUI applications.


## objectives

- Other techniques of building apps
- What is WinForms windows 窗体
- Survey some common controls.
- Coding will be done in the schedule class time.

## GUI apps

We will be developing Graphical User Interface (Gui) using Windows Forms.
### WinForms
Like all the other applications that we have develop so far is based on the .NET Framework, so it will only run an a windows box.

Other technologies that have emerged after WinForms and are being replaced are Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF), Universal Windows Platform (UWP) and Xamarin forms.

### .NET Maui
The newest technology that might seem to persevere is .NET Maui.
This is a cross platform technology that was recently released by Microsoft.

## What is Gui app?

Applications that run in their own window.
Does not interact with other windows (unless by design).

This app is consistent with other apps.

Rectangular, distinct borders, may sport a uniform menu system, icons, toolbars, short-cut keys.

Supports a pointer interface.

The simple UI makes the apps accessible to more people.

Building a WinForm app is as simple as starting with a WindowsForm template and positioning, and customizing controls on your main form.

Visual Studio facilitates an excellent workflow in creating rich immersive Gui apps.


## Creating a User Interface

There are three steps in creating a UI

1. Adding controls to the design surface
	- Mouse is used to drag controls from the toolbox
	- Set the appropriate size
	- Drag to the desired location
	- You may use layout managers e.g. 
	  FlowLayout, TableLayout

2. Setting initial properties for the controls
	- From the properties window, customize the color, text, docking, font, etc.
3. Writing handlers for specified events
	- Double-clicking the control will make the designer to add the default handler in the code file

## Common properties of controls/widgets

Name:
- This is how a control is referenced in code.
- All controls that is referenced in code MUST have a custom name.
- Naming conventions is a three or four letters prefix.
	- TextBox: txtName, 
	- Button -> btnOk, 
	- Label -> lblStatus, 
	- Combobox -> cboProgram.

Text:
- This is a string literal that shows up in the GUI (Label, Button, Textbox).
- You may change the font face, color, or size.

Enabled:
- This is a bool that indicate if this control will allow user input.

Visible:
- This is a bool indicating if this control will be visible.

TabStop:
- This bool indicate if this control will receive focus by using the tab key.
- Critical for developing app, that does not support a pointing device, or the user is not able to use a pointing device.

TabIndex:
- This int indicates the order that this control will get focus, while using the tab key.

Tag:
- This is string is for you to use as you see fit.
- It is present in all controls.